================================================================================

Escher CMS Release Notes

================================================================================

Release 0.9.3

--

CacheMonitor plugin is now branch-aware.

--

Admin config array structure has changed for: [session, auth]. Be sure to update
your copy of admin-config.php or you will be unable to log into the admin interface.

--

================================================================================

Release 0.9.2

--

Major new feature: Integrated branch management. Escher sites now have
production, staging and development branches that can each be independently
developed and viewed.

If you would like to take advantage of the new branching feature, you will need
to add two new subdirectories to your cache directory. Add these directories at
the same level as your existing cache/code directory, and give them the same
ownership and permissions as your existing cache/code directory:

	cache/code.staging
	cache/code.dev

--

Drag & Drop page reordering.

--

New default theme by Phil Wareham of Design Hive Ltd. Thanks Phil!

	http://www.designhive.com/
	@philwareham

--

Site search plugin.
Feed generator plugin.

--

Unlimited custom metadata for images, files and links.

--

Support for separate read-only database(s) (for load-balancing MySQL queries to replicated slaves) 

--

Specifying snippets by ID when using escher tags such as <et:design:snippet> is
now deprecated and support will be dropped in the next release. Fetch snippets
by name instead.

--

The "offset" attribute used by several tags has been replaced with the "start"
attribute, which has different semantics. Whereas the "offset" attribute was a
zero-based absolute index into the resulting object list, the "start" attribute
is a one-based index that takes paging (i.e. the value of the "limit" attribute)
into account. For example, with limit=10 and start=2, the first returned object
would be the 11th object in the list. The followng tags are affected by this
change:

	<et:pages:count>, <et:pages:first>, <et:pages:last>, <et:pages:each>
	<et:children:count>, <et:children:first>, <et:children:last>, <et:children:each>
	<et:siblings:count>, <et:siblings:each>
	<et:files:count>, <et:files:each>
	<et:comments:count>, <et:comments:each>
	<et:archives:count>, <et:archives:first>, <et:archives:last>, <et:archives:each>, <et:archives:dates_each>

--

New tags have been added to assist with generation of next/previous links in
concert with the pagination plugin.

	<et:pages:if_any>, <et:pages:if_any_before>, <et:pages:if_any_after>
	<et:children:if_any>, <et:children:if_any_before>, <et:children:if_any_after>
	<et:siblings:if_any>, <et:siblings:if_any_before>, <et:siblings:if_any_after>
	<et:files:if_any>, <et:files:if_any_before>, <et:files:if_any_after>
	<et:archives:if_any>, <et:archives:if_any_before>, <et:archives:if_any_after>
	<et:comments:if_any>, <et:comments:if_any_before>, <et:comments:if_any_after>

--

Comments Plugin

	The <et:comments:if_comments> tag has been removed. Use <et:comments:if_any> instead.
	
	The default comment snippets have changed. These are **not** updated during an upgrade.

	Backward-incompatible change in behavior: By default, comment processing (escaping of input, etc.)
		now occurs prior to saving the comment to the database. Previously, processing was performed
		dynamically during page view. The new method provides improved site performance. To continue
		with the previous behavior, change your comment code to pass attributes as follows:

		<et:comments:if_add_comment escape="false" nl2p="false" pretty="false" />
		<et:comments:content escape="true" />

		If you decide to use the new method of comment processing, be aware that any comments currently
		stored in your site database may contain data that is unsafe to render. You should check
		your existing comments and potentially escape the contents of the `message` column for each
		existing comment before enabling the new behavior in your site.

--

	Miscellaneous bug fixes.

--

================================================================================

Release 0.9.1

--

Spark/Plug now uses the PHPass library for password hashing. As a result, any
Escher user password hashes stored in Escher 0.9.0 databases will no longer
be recognized. This will cause login to fail once you install a version of
Escher CMS newer than 0.9.0. The easiest fix is to use the "Forget your Password?"
link on the Escher CMS login screen to regenerate the password hashes for each
user account.

--

The folllowing tags have been removed:

	<et:ns:meta>
	<et:meta:keywords>
	<et:meta:description>
	<et:meta:author>
	<et:meta:distribution>
	<et:meta:robots>
	<et:meta:custom>
	
They have been replaced with the more general purpose tags:

	<et:pages:meta>
	<et:images:meta>
	<et:files:meta>
	<et:links:meta>
	
--

Note the following change to publish-config.php (be sure to update your copy):

	The following route:
	
		':any' => 'publish/index',
	
	has changed to:
	
		':all' => 'publish/index',

--

There has been a minor adjustment to the default location of the main Spark/Plug
directory. As a result, the "sparkplug_dir" config parameter has changed.

If you are using a custom installation layout you may need to adjust the value
of this parameter in the following config files:

	config/admin-config.php
	config/install-config.php
	config/publish-config.php

If you are using the standard installation layout, the new versions of the above
files have already been adjusted for you.

--

================================================================================
